docs/Authorization.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Authorization"
---

# Authorization

Some applications may require to determine what level of access a particular authenticated user should have to secured resources. Since there are many different possible strategies (single role, multiple roles or rights, etc.), admin-on-rest simply provides hooks to execute your own authorization code.

By default, an admin-on-rest app doesn't require authorization. However, if needed, it will rely on the `authClient` introduced in the [Authentication](./Authentication.html) section.

## Configuring the Auth Client

A call to the `authClient` with the `AUTH_GET_PERMISSIONS` type will be made each time a component requires to check the user's permissions.

Following is an example which store the user's role upon authentication and return it for the permissions check:

```jsx
// in src/authClient.js
import { AUTH_LOGIN, AUTH_LOGOUT, AUTH_ERROR, AUTH_CHECK } from 'admin-on-rest';
import decodeJwt from 'jwt-decode';

export default (type, params) => {
    if (type === AUTH_LOGIN) {
        const { username, password } = params;
        const request = new Request('https://mydomain.com/authenticate', {
            method: 'POST',
            body: JSON.stringify({ username, password }),
            headers: new Headers({ 'Content-Type': 'application/json' }),
        })
        return fetch(request)
            .then(response => {
                if (response.status < 200 || response.status >= 300) {
                    throw new Error(response.statusText);
                }
                return response.json();
            })
            .then(({ token }) => {
                const decodedToken = decodeJwt(token);
                localStorage.setItem('token', token);
                localStorage.setItem('role', decodedToken.role);
            });
    }
    if (type === AUTH_LOGOUT) {
        localStorage.removeItem('token');
        localStorage.removeItem('role');
        return Promise.resolve();
    }
    if (type === AUTH_ERROR) {
        // ...
    }
    if (type === AUTH_CHECK) {
        return localStorage.getItem('token') ? Promise.resolve() : Promise.reject();
    }
    if (type === AUTH_GET_PERMISSIONS) {
        const role = localStorage.getItem('role');
        return Promise.resolve(role);
    }

    return Promise.reject('Unkown method');
};
```

## Restricting Access To Resources or Views

It's possible to restrict access to resources or their views inside the `Admin` component. To do so, you must specify a function as the `Admin` only child. This function will be called with the permissions returned by the `authClient`.

{% raw %}
```jsx
<Admin
    restClient={restClient}
    authClient={authClient}
>
    {permissions => [
        // Restrict access to the edit and remove views to admin only
        <Resource
            name="customers"
            list={VisitorList}
            edit={permissions === 'admin' ? VisitorEdit : null}
            remove={permissions === 'admin' ? VisitorDelete : null}
            icon={VisitorIcon}
        />,
        // Only include the categories resource for admin users
        permissions === 'admin'
            ? <Resource name="categories" list={CategoryList} edit={CategoryEdit} remove={Delete} icon={CategoryIcon} />
            : null,
    ]}
</Admin>
```
{% endraw %}

Note that the function returns an array of React elements. This is required to avoid having to wrap them in a container element which would prevent the `Admin` from working.

**Tip** Even if that's possible, be careful when completely excluding a resource (like we did with the `categories` in this example) as it will prevent you to reference them in the other resources views too.

## Restricting Access To Fields And Inputs

You might want to display some fields, inputs or filters only to users with specific permissions. It's possible to do so the same way you can restrict access to resources.

Here's an example inside a `Create` view with a `SimpleForm` and a custom `Toolbar`:

{% raw %}
```jsx
const UserCreateToolbar = ({ permissions, ...props }) =>
    <Toolbar {...props}>
        <SaveButton
            label="user.action.save_and_show"
            redirect="show"
            submitOnEnter={true}
        />
        {permissions === 'admin' &&
            <SaveButton
                label="user.action.save_and_add"
                redirect={false}
                submitOnEnter={false}
                raised={false}
            />}
    </Toolbar>;

export const UserCreate = ({ ...props }) =>
    <Create {...props}>
        {permissions =>
            <SimpleForm
                toolbar={<UserCreateToolbar permissions={permissions} />}
                defaultValue={{ role: 'user' }}
            >
                <TextInput source="name" validate={[required]} />
                {permissions === 'admin' &&
                    <TextInput source="role" validate={[required]} />}
            </SimpleForm>}
    </Create>;
```
{% endraw %}

This also works inside an `Edition` view with a `TabbedForm` and you can hide a `FormTab` completely:

{% raw %}
```jsx
export const UserEdit = ({ ...props }) =>
    <Edit title={<UserTitle />} {...props}>
        {permissions =>
            <TabbedForm defaultValue={{ role: 'user' }}>
                <FormTab label="user.form.summary">
                    {permissions === 'admin' && <DisabledInput source="id" />}
                    <TextInput source="name" validate={required} />
                </FormTab>
                {permissions === 'admin' &&
                    <FormTab label="user.form.security">
                        <TextInput source="role" validate={required} />
                    </FormTab>}
            </TabbedForm>}
    </Edit>;
```
{% endraw %}

What about the `List` view, the `DataGrid`, `SimpleList` and `Filter` components ?

{% raw %}
```jsx
const UserFilter = ({ ...props }) =>
    <Filter {...props}>
        {permissions => [
            <TextInput
                key="user.list.search"
                label="user.list.search"
                source="q"
                alwaysOn
            />,
            <TextInput key="name" source="name" />,
            permissions === 'admin' ? <TextInput source="role" /> : null,
        ]}
    </Filter>;

export const UserList = ({ ...props }) =>
    <List
        {...props}
        filters={<UserFilter />}
        sort={{ field: 'name', order: 'ASC' }}
    >
        {permissions =>
            <Responsive
                small={
                    <SimpleList
                        primaryText={record => record.name}
                        secondaryText={record =>
                            permissions === 'admin' ? record.role : null}
                    />
                }
                medium={
                    <Datagrid>
                        <TextField source="id" />
                        <TextField source="name" />
                        {permissions === 'admin' && <TextField source="role" />}
                        {permissions === 'admin' && <EditButton />}
                        <ShowButton />
                    </Datagrid>
                }
            />}
    </List>;
```
{% endraw %}

Note that for the `Filter` component,  the function returns an array of React elements. This is required to avoid having to wrap them in a container element which would prevent the `Filter` from working.

## Restricting Access To Content In Custom Pages or Menus

What if you want to check the permissions inside a [Dashboard](./Admin.html#dashboard), a [custom page](http://127.0.0.1:4000/Admin.html#customroutes) or a [custom menu](./Admin.html#menu) ? Admin-on-rest provides two components for that: `WithPermissions` and `SwitchPermissions`.

### WithPermissions

The `WithPermissions` component will only display its content if the user has the required permissions. Let's see an example with a custom menu where a custom page link should only be presented to admins:

{% raw %}
```jsx
// in src/Menu.js
import React from 'react';
import { MenuItemLink, WithPermissions } from 'admin-on-rest';

export default ({ resources, onMenuTap, logout }) => (
    <div>
        <MenuItemLink to="/posts" primaryText="Posts" onTouchTap={onMenuTap} />
        <MenuItemLink to="/comments" primaryText="Comments" onTouchTap={onMenuTap} />
        <WithPermissions value="admin">
            <MenuItemLink to="/custom-route" primaryText="Miscellaneous" onTouchTap={onMenuTap} />
        </WithPermissions>
        {logout}
    </div>
);
```
{% endraw %}

The `WithPermission` component requires either a `value` with the permissions to check (could be a role, an array of roles, etc) or a `resolve` function.

An additional `exact` prop may be specified depending on your requirements. It determines whether the user must have **all** the required permissions or only some. If `false`, the default, we'll only check if the user has at least one of the required permissions.

You may bypass the default logic by specifying a function as the `resolve` prop. This function may return `true` or `false` directly or a promise resolving to either `true` or `false`. It will be called with an object having the following properties:

- `permissions`: the result of the `authClient` call.
- `value`: the value of the `value` prop if specified
- `exact`: the value of the `exact` prop if specified

An optional `loading` prop may be specified on the `WithPermissions` component to pass a component to display while checking for permissions. It defaults to `null`.

### SwitchPermissions

The `SwitchPermissions` component will display one of its `Permission` children depending on the permissions returned by the `authClient`. It accepts two optional props:

- `loading`: A component to display while checking for permissions. Defaults to `null`.
- `notFound`: A component to display when no match was found while checking the permissions. Default to `null`.

The `Permission` component requires either a `value` with the permissions to check (could be a role, an array of roles, etc) or a `resolve` function.

An additional `exact` prop may be specified depending on your requirements. It determines whether the user must have **all** the required permissions or only some. If `false`, the default, we'll only check if the user has at least one of the required permissions.

You may bypass the default logic by specifying a function as the `resolve` prop. This function may return `true` or `false` directly or a promise resolving to either `true` or `false`. It will be called with an object having the following properties:

- `permissions`: the result of the `authClient` call.
- `value`: the value of the `value` prop if specified
- `exact`: the value of the `exact` prop if specified

If multiple `Permission` match, only the first one will be displayed.

Here's an example inside a `DashBoard`:

```jsx
// in src/Dashboard.js
import React from 'react';
import BenefitsSummary from './BenefitsSummary';
import BenefitsDetailsWithSensitiveData from './BenefitsDetailsWithSensitiveData';
import { ViewTitle } from 'admin-on-rest/lib/mui';

export default () => (
    <Card>
        <ViewTitle title="Dashboard" />

        <SwitchPermissions>
            <Permission value="associate">
                <BenefitsSummary />
            </Permission>
            <Permission value="boss">
                <BenefitsDetailsWithSensitiveData />
            </Permission>
        </SwitchPermissions>
    </Card>
);
```

Commit message:

Typo fix s/which store the user's role upon authentication and return it for the permissions check/where the `authClient` stores the user's role upon authentication, and returns it when called for a permissions check/
As requested by fzaninotto at https://github.com/marmelab/admin-on-rest/pull/959#discussion_r134847743

docs/Authorization.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Authorization"
---

# Authorization

Some applications may require to determine what level of access a particular authenticated user should have to secured resources. Since there are many different possible strategies (single role, multiple roles or rights, etc.), admin-on-rest simply provides hooks to execute your own authorization code.

By default, an admin-on-rest app doesn't require authorization. However, if needed, it will rely on the `authClient` introduced in the [Authentication](./Authentication.html) section.

## Configuring the Auth Client

A call to the `authClient` with the `AUTH_GET_PERMISSIONS` type will be made each time a component requires to check the user's permissions.

Following is an example where the `authClient` stores the user's role upon authentication, and returns it when called for a permissions check:

```jsx
// in src/authClient.js
import { AUTH_LOGIN, AUTH_LOGOUT, AUTH_ERROR, AUTH_CHECK } from 'admin-on-rest';
import decodeJwt from 'jwt-decode';

export default (type, params) => {
    if (type === AUTH_LOGIN) {
        const { username, password } = params;
        const request = new Request('https://mydomain.com/authenticate', {
            method: 'POST',
            body: JSON.stringify({ username, password }),
            headers: new Headers({ 'Content-Type': 'application/json' }),
        })
        return fetch(request)
            .then(response => {
                if (response.status < 200 || response.status >= 300) {
                    throw new Error(response.statusText);
                }
                return response.json();
            })
            .then(({ token }) => {
                const decodedToken = decodeJwt(token);
                localStorage.setItem('token', token);
                localStorage.setItem('role', decodedToken.role);
            });
    }
    if (type === AUTH_LOGOUT) {
        localStorage.removeItem('token');
        localStorage.removeItem('role');
        return Promise.resolve();
    }
    if (type === AUTH_ERROR) {
        // ...
    }
    if (type === AUTH_CHECK) {
        return localStorage.getItem('token') ? Promise.resolve() : Promise.reject();
    }
    if (type === AUTH_GET_PERMISSIONS) {
        const role = localStorage.getItem('role');
        return Promise.resolve(role);
    }

    return Promise.reject('Unkown method');
};
```

## Restricting Access To Resources or Views

It's possible to restrict access to resources or their views inside the `Admin` component. To do so, you must specify a function as the `Admin` only child. This function will be called with the permissions returned by the `authClient`.

{% raw %}
```jsx
<Admin
    restClient={restClient}
    authClient={authClient}
>
    {permissions => [
        // Restrict access to the edit and remove views to admin only
        <Resource
            name="customers"
            list={VisitorList}
            edit={permissions === 'admin' ? VisitorEdit : null}
            remove={permissions === 'admin' ? VisitorDelete : null}
            icon={VisitorIcon}
        />,
        // Only include the categories resource for admin users
        permissions === 'admin'
            ? <Resource name="categories" list={CategoryList} edit={CategoryEdit} remove={Delete} icon={CategoryIcon} />
            : null,
    ]}
</Admin>
```
{% endraw %}

Note that the function returns an array of React elements. This is required to avoid having to wrap them in a container element which would prevent the `Admin` from working.

**Tip** Even if that's possible, be careful when completely excluding a resource (like we did with the `categories` in this example) as it will prevent you to reference them in the other resources views too.

## Restricting Access To Fields And Inputs

You might want to display some fields, inputs or filters only to users with specific permissions. It's possible to do so the same way you can restrict access to resources.

Here's an example inside a `Create` view with a `SimpleForm` and a custom `Toolbar`:

{% raw %}
```jsx
const UserCreateToolbar = ({ permissions, ...props }) =>
    <Toolbar {...props}>
        <SaveButton
            label="user.action.save_and_show"
            redirect="show"
            submitOnEnter={true}
        />
        {permissions === 'admin' &&
            <SaveButton
                label="user.action.save_and_add"
                redirect={false}
                submitOnEnter={false}
                raised={false}
            />}
    </Toolbar>;

export const UserCreate = ({ ...props }) =>
    <Create {...props}>
        {permissions =>
            <SimpleForm
                toolbar={<UserCreateToolbar permissions={permissions} />}
                defaultValue={{ role: 'user' }}
            >
                <TextInput source="name" validate={[required]} />
                {permissions === 'admin' &&
                    <TextInput source="role" validate={[required]} />}
            </SimpleForm>}
    </Create>;
```
{% endraw %}

This also works inside an `Edition` view with a `TabbedForm` and you can hide a `FormTab` completely:

{% raw %}
```jsx
export const UserEdit = ({ ...props }) =>
    <Edit title={<UserTitle />} {...props}>
        {permissions =>
            <TabbedForm defaultValue={{ role: 'user' }}>
                <FormTab label="user.form.summary">
                    {permissions === 'admin' && <DisabledInput source="id" />}
                    <TextInput source="name" validate={required} />
                </FormTab>
                {permissions === 'admin' &&
                    <FormTab label="user.form.security">
                        <TextInput source="role" validate={required} />
                    </FormTab>}
            </TabbedForm>}
    </Edit>;
```
{% endraw %}

What about the `List` view, the `DataGrid`, `SimpleList` and `Filter` components ?

{% raw %}
```jsx
const UserFilter = ({ ...props }) =>
    <Filter {...props}>
        {permissions => [
            <TextInput
                key="user.list.search"
                label="user.list.search"
                source="q"
                alwaysOn
            />,
            <TextInput key="name" source="name" />,
            permissions === 'admin' ? <TextInput source="role" /> : null,
        ]}
    </Filter>;

export const UserList = ({ ...props }) =>
    <List
        {...props}
        filters={<UserFilter />}
        sort={{ field: 'name', order: 'ASC' }}
    >
        {permissions =>
            <Responsive
                small={
                    <SimpleList
                        primaryText={record => record.name}
                        secondaryText={record =>
                            permissions === 'admin' ? record.role : null}
                    />
                }
                medium={
                    <Datagrid>
                        <TextField source="id" />
                        <TextField source="name" />
                        {permissions === 'admin' && <TextField source="role" />}
                        {permissions === 'admin' && <EditButton />}
                        <ShowButton />
                    </Datagrid>
                }
            />}
    </List>;
```
{% endraw %}

Note that for the `Filter` component,  the function returns an array of React elements. This is required to avoid having to wrap them in a container element which would prevent the `Filter` from working.

## Restricting Access To Content In Custom Pages or Menus

What if you want to check the permissions inside a [Dashboard](./Admin.html#dashboard), a [custom page](http://127.0.0.1:4000/Admin.html#customroutes) or a [custom menu](./Admin.html#menu) ? Admin-on-rest provides two components for that: `WithPermissions` and `SwitchPermissions`.

### WithPermissions

The `WithPermissions` component will only display its content if the user has the required permissions. Let's see an example with a custom menu where a custom page link should only be presented to admins:

{% raw %}
```jsx
// in src/Menu.js
import React from 'react';
import { MenuItemLink, WithPermissions } from 'admin-on-rest';

export default ({ resources, onMenuTap, logout }) => (
    <div>
        <MenuItemLink to="/posts" primaryText="Posts" onTouchTap={onMenuTap} />
        <MenuItemLink to="/comments" primaryText="Comments" onTouchTap={onMenuTap} />
        <WithPermissions value="admin">
            <MenuItemLink to="/custom-route" primaryText="Miscellaneous" onTouchTap={onMenuTap} />
        </WithPermissions>
        {logout}
    </div>
);
```
{% endraw %}

The `WithPermission` component requires either a `value` with the permissions to check (could be a role, an array of roles, etc) or a `resolve` function.

An additional `exact` prop may be specified depending on your requirements. It determines whether the user must have **all** the required permissions or only some. If `false`, the default, we'll only check if the user has at least one of the required permissions.

You may bypass the default logic by specifying a function as the `resolve` prop. This function may return `true` or `false` directly or a promise resolving to either `true` or `false`. It will be called with an object having the following properties:

- `permissions`: the result of the `authClient` call.
- `value`: the value of the `value` prop if specified
- `exact`: the value of the `exact` prop if specified

An optional `loading` prop may be specified on the `WithPermissions` component to pass a component to display while checking for permissions. It defaults to `null`.

### SwitchPermissions

The `SwitchPermissions` component will display one of its `Permission` children depending on the permissions returned by the `authClient`. It accepts two optional props:

- `loading`: A component to display while checking for permissions. Defaults to `null`.
- `notFound`: A component to display when no match was found while checking the permissions. Default to `null`.

The `Permission` component requires either a `value` with the permissions to check (could be a role, an array of roles, etc) or a `resolve` function.

An additional `exact` prop may be specified depending on your requirements. It determines whether the user must have **all** the required permissions or only some. If `false`, the default, we'll only check if the user has at least one of the required permissions.

You may bypass the default logic by specifying a function as the `resolve` prop. This function may return `true` or `false` directly or a promise resolving to either `true` or `false`. It will be called with an object having the following properties:

- `permissions`: the result of the `authClient` call.
- `value`: the value of the `value` prop if specified
- `exact`: the value of the `exact` prop if specified

If multiple `Permission` match, only the first one will be displayed.

Here's an example inside a `DashBoard`:

```jsx
// in src/Dashboard.js
import React from 'react';
import BenefitsSummary from './BenefitsSummary';
import BenefitsDetailsWithSensitiveData from './BenefitsDetailsWithSensitiveData';
import { ViewTitle } from 'admin-on-rest/lib/mui';

export default () => (
    <Card>
        <ViewTitle title="Dashboard" />

        <SwitchPermissions>
            <Permission value="associate">
                <BenefitsSummary />
            </Permission>
            <Permission value="boss">
                <BenefitsDetailsWithSensitiveData />
            </Permission>
        </SwitchPermissions>
    </Card>
);
```
