docs/CustomApp.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Including the Admin in Another App"
---

# Including admin-on-rest on another React app

The `<Admin>` tag is a great shortcut got be up and running with admin-on-rest in minutes. However, in many cases, you will want to embed the admin in another application, or customize the admin deeply (custom menus, custom actions, custom reducers). Fortunately, you can do all the work that `<Admin>` does on any React application.

Beware that you need to know about [redux](http://redux.js.org/), [react-router](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router), and [redux-saga](https://github.com/yelouafi/redux-saga) to go further.

## Basic Admin App

Here is the main code for bootstrapping an admin-on-rest application with 3 resources: `posts`, `comments`, and `users`:

```js
// in src/App.js
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';

// redux, react-router, and saga form the 'kernel' on which admin-on-rest runs
import { combineReducers, createStore, compose, applyMiddleware } from 'redux';
import { Provider } from 'react-redux';
import { Router, IndexRoute, Route, Redirect, hashHistory } from 'react-router';
import { syncHistoryWithStore, routerMiddleware, routerReducer } from 'react-router-redux';
import { reducer as formReducer } from 'redux-form';
import createSagaMiddleware from 'redux-saga';

// prebuilt admin-on-rest features
import { adminReducer, crudSaga, CrudRoute, simpleRestClient } from 'admin-on-rest';

// your app components
import Layout from './Layout';
import Dashboard from './Dashboard';
import { PostList, PostCreate, PostEdit, PostShow } from './Post';
import { CommentList, CommentEdit, CommentCreate } from './Comment';
import { UserList, UserEdit, UserCreate } from './User';
import { Delete } from 'admin-on-rest/lib/mui';

// create a Redux app
const reducer = combineReducers({
    admin: adminReducer([{ name: 'posts' }, { name: 'comments' }, { name: 'users' }]),
    form: formReducer,
    routing: routerReducer,
});
const sagaMiddleware = createSagaMiddleware();
const store = createStore(reducer, undefined, compose(
    applyMiddleware(routerMiddleware(hashHistory), sagaMiddleware),
    window.devToolsExtension ? window.devToolsExtension() : f => f,
));
const restClient = simpleRestClient('http://path.to.my.api/');
sagaMiddleware.run(crudSaga(restClient));

// initialize the router
const history = syncHistoryWithStore(hashHistory, store);

// bootstrap redux and the routes
const App = () => (
    <Provider store={store}>
        <Router history={history}>
            <Route path="/" component={Layout}>
                <IndexRoute component={Dashboard} restClient={restClient} />
                <CrudRoute path="posts" list={PostList} create={PostCreate} edit={PostEdit} show={PostShow} remove={Delete} />
                <CrudRoute path="comments" list={CommentList} create={CommentCreate} edit={CommentEdit} remove={Delete} />
                <CrudRoute path="users" list={UserList} create={UserCreate} edit={UserEdit} remove={Delete} />
            </Route>
        </Router>
    </Provider>
);
```

From then on, you can customize pretty much anything you want.

## Adding Custom routes

Since you're in control of the app, you can add `<Route>` components of your own wherever in the react-ruter configuration:

```js
const App = () => (
    <Provider store={store}>
        <Router history={history}>
            <Route path="/" component={Layout}>
                <IndexRoute component={Dashboard} restClient={restClient} />
                <Route path="checkout" component={Checkout}>
                    <Route path="/:id" component={Cart} />
                </Route>
                <CrudRoute key="posts" path="posts" list={PostList} create={PostCreate} edit={PostEdit} show={PostShow} remove={Delete} />
                <!-- ... -->
            </Route>
        </Router>
    </Provider>
);
```

Check the [react-router documentation](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router/tree/master/docs) for more information on creating your own routes.

## Adding Custom reducers

If you use custom components dispatching your own actions, you will want to store the result in a custom part of the state. That's easy: add an entry in the `combineReducers()` call:

```js
import { routerReducer } from 'react-router-redux';
import { adminReducer } from 'admin-on-rest';
import { reducer as formReducer } from 'redux-form';

import checkoutReducer from './reducers/checkout';
const reducer = combineReducers({
    admin: adminReducer(['posts, comments, users']),
    form: formReducer,
    routing: routerReducer,
    // add your own reducers here
    checkout: checkoutReducer,
});
```

## Changing the Menu or the Layout

The `<Layout>` component has the responsibility for displaying the menu. So you can build your own custom menu, wrap it in a custom layout, and pass that to the `<Route path="/">` route.

{% raw %}
```js
// in src/MyLayout
const MyMenu = () => (
    <Paper style={{ flex: '0 0 15em', order: -1 }}>
        <List>
            <ListItem containerElement={<Link to={`/posts`} />} primaryText="Posts" leftIcon={<MyPostIcon />} />
            <ListItem containerElement={<Link to={`/comments`} />} primaryText="Comments" leftIcon={<MyPostIcon />} />
            <ListItem containerElement={<Link to={`/users`} />} primaryText="Users" leftIcon={<MyPostIcon />} />
            )}
        </List>
    </Paper>
);

const MyLayout = ({ isLoading, children, route, title }) => {
    const Title = <Link to="/" style={{ color: '#fff', textDecoration: 'none' }}>{title}</Link>;
    const RightElement = isLoading ? <CircularProgress color="#fff" size={0.5} /> : <span />;

    return (
        <MuiThemeProvider>
            <div style={{ display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column', minHeight: '100vh' }}>
                <AppBar title={Title} iconElementRight={RightElement} />
                <div className="body" style={{ display: 'flex', flex: '1', backgroundColor: '#edecec' }}>
                    <div style={{ flex: 1 }}>{children}</div>
                    <MyMenu />
                </div>
                <Notification />
            </div>
        </MuiThemeProvider>
    );
};

// in src/App.js
import MyLayout from './MyLayout';
const App = () => (
    <Provider store={store}>
        <Router history={history}>
            <Route path="/" component={MyLayout}>
                <!-- ... -->
            </Route>
        </Router>
    </Provider>
);
```
{% endraw %}

## Replacing Saga by Another Side Effect library

Admin-on-rest chooses to use redux-saga for all side effects (AJAX calls, notifications, actions launched as a result of another action, etc). There is no consensus yet on the best way to code side effects in a redux app. Chances are you chose another solution (like [redux-thunk](https://github.com/gaearon/redux-thunk), [redux-loop](https://github.com/redux-loop/redux-loop)). No problem! you can just use your own side effects instead of admin-on-rest ones. Just make sure they listen and dispatch the same actions.

Commit message:

Add the ability to add custom routes
Closes #283

docs/CustomApp.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Including the Admin in Another App"
---

# Including admin-on-rest on another React app

The `<Admin>` tag is a great shortcut got be up and running with admin-on-rest in minutes. However, in many cases, you will want to embed the admin in another application, or customize the admin deeply. Fortunately, you can do all the work that `<Admin>` does on any React application.

Beware that you need to know about [redux](http://redux.js.org/), [react-router](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router), and [redux-saga](https://github.com/yelouafi/redux-saga) to go further.

**Tip**: Before going for the Custom App route, explore all the options of [the `<Admin>` component](./AdminResource.html##the-admin-component). They allow you to add custom routes, custom reducers, custom sagas, and customize the layout.

## Basic Admin App

Here is the main code for bootstrapping an admin-on-rest application with 3 resources: `posts`, `comments`, and `users`:

```js
// in src/App.js
import React, { PropTypes } from 'react';

// redux, react-router, and saga form the 'kernel' on which admin-on-rest runs
import { combineReducers, createStore, compose, applyMiddleware } from 'redux';
import { Provider } from 'react-redux';
import { Router, IndexRoute, Route, Redirect, hashHistory } from 'react-router';
import { syncHistoryWithStore, routerMiddleware, routerReducer } from 'react-router-redux';
import { reducer as formReducer } from 'redux-form';
import createSagaMiddleware from 'redux-saga';

// prebuilt admin-on-rest features
import { adminReducer, crudSaga, CrudRoute, simpleRestClient } from 'admin-on-rest';

// your app components
import Layout from './Layout';
import Dashboard from './Dashboard';
import { PostList, PostCreate, PostEdit, PostShow } from './Post';
import { CommentList, CommentEdit, CommentCreate } from './Comment';
import { UserList, UserEdit, UserCreate } from './User';
import { Delete } from 'admin-on-rest/lib/mui';

// create a Redux app
const reducer = combineReducers({
    admin: adminReducer([{ name: 'posts' }, { name: 'comments' }, { name: 'users' }]),
    form: formReducer,
    routing: routerReducer,
});
const sagaMiddleware = createSagaMiddleware();
const store = createStore(reducer, undefined, compose(
    applyMiddleware(routerMiddleware(hashHistory), sagaMiddleware),
    window.devToolsExtension ? window.devToolsExtension() : f => f,
));
const restClient = simpleRestClient('http://path.to.my.api/');
sagaMiddleware.run(crudSaga(restClient));

// initialize the router
const history = syncHistoryWithStore(hashHistory, store);

// bootstrap redux and the routes
const App = () => (
    <Provider store={store}>
        <Router history={history}>
            <Route path="/" component={Layout}>
                <IndexRoute component={Dashboard} restClient={restClient} />
                <CrudRoute path="posts" list={PostList} create={PostCreate} edit={PostEdit} show={PostShow} remove={Delete} />
                <CrudRoute path="comments" list={CommentList} create={CommentCreate} edit={CommentEdit} remove={Delete} />
                <CrudRoute path="users" list={UserList} create={UserCreate} edit={UserEdit} remove={Delete} />
            </Route>
        </Router>
    </Provider>
);
```

From then on, you can customize pretty much anything you want.

## Adding Custom routes

Since you're in control of the app, you can add `<Route>` components of your own wherever in the react-ruter configuration:

```js
const App = () => (
    <Provider store={store}>
        <Router history={history}>
            <Route path="/" component={Layout}>
                <IndexRoute component={Dashboard} restClient={restClient} />
                <Route path="checkout" component={Checkout}>
                    <Route path="/:id" component={Cart} />
                </Route>
                <CrudRoute key="posts" path="posts" list={PostList} create={PostCreate} edit={PostEdit} show={PostShow} remove={Delete} />
                <!-- ... -->
            </Route>
        </Router>
    </Provider>
);
```

Check the [react-router documentation](https://github.com/reactjs/react-router/tree/master/docs) for more information on creating your own routes.

## Adding Custom reducers

If you use custom components dispatching your own actions, you will want to store the result in a custom part of the state. That's easy: add an entry in the `combineReducers()` call:

```js
import { routerReducer } from 'react-router-redux';
import { adminReducer } from 'admin-on-rest';
import { reducer as formReducer } from 'redux-form';

import checkoutReducer from './reducers/checkout';
const reducer = combineReducers({
    admin: adminReducer(['posts, comments, users']),
    form: formReducer,
    routing: routerReducer,
    // add your own reducers here
    checkout: checkoutReducer,
});
```

## Changing the Menu or the Layout

The `<Layout>` component has the responsibility for displaying the menu. So you can build your own custom menu, wrap it in a custom layout, and pass that to the `<Route path="/">` route.

{% raw %}
```js
// in src/MyLayout
const MyMenu = () => (
    <Paper style={{ flex: '0 0 15em', order: -1 }}>
        <List>
            <ListItem containerElement={<Link to={`/posts`} />} primaryText="Posts" leftIcon={<MyPostIcon />} />
            <ListItem containerElement={<Link to={`/comments`} />} primaryText="Comments" leftIcon={<MyPostIcon />} />
            <ListItem containerElement={<Link to={`/users`} />} primaryText="Users" leftIcon={<MyPostIcon />} />
            )}
        </List>
    </Paper>
);

const MyLayout = ({ isLoading, children, route, title }) => {
    const Title = <Link to="/" style={{ color: '#fff', textDecoration: 'none' }}>{title}</Link>;
    const RightElement = isLoading ? <CircularProgress color="#fff" size={0.5} /> : <span />;

    return (
        <MuiThemeProvider>
            <div style={{ display: 'flex', flexDirection: 'column', minHeight: '100vh' }}>
                <AppBar title={Title} iconElementRight={RightElement} />
                <div className="body" style={{ display: 'flex', flex: '1', backgroundColor: '#edecec' }}>
                    <div style={{ flex: 1 }}>{children}</div>
                    <MyMenu />
                </div>
                <Notification />
            </div>
        </MuiThemeProvider>
    );
};

// in src/App.js
import MyLayout from './MyLayout';
const App = () => (
    <Provider store={store}>
        <Router history={history}>
            <Route path="/" component={MyLayout}>
                <!-- ... -->
            </Route>
        </Router>
    </Provider>
);
```
{% endraw %}

## Replacing Saga by Another Side Effect library

Admin-on-rest chooses to use redux-saga for all side effects (AJAX calls, notifications, actions launched as a result of another action, etc). There is no consensus yet on the best way to code side effects in a redux app. Chances are you chose another solution (like [redux-thunk](https://github.com/gaearon/redux-thunk), [redux-loop](https://github.com/redux-loop/redux-loop)). No problem! you can just use your own side effects instead of admin-on-rest ones. Just make sure they listen and dispatch the same actions.
