docs/Ecosystem.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Ecosystem"
---

# Ecosystem

- [Inputs and Fields](#inputs-and-fields)
- [Translations](#translations)
- [Data Providers](#data-providers)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

## Inputs and Fields

- [vascofg/react-admin-color-input](https://github.com/vascofg/react-admin-color-input): a color input using [React Color](http://casesandberg.github.io/react-color/), a collection of color pickers.
- [LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input](https://github.com/LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input): a TinyMCE component, useful for editing HTML
- [vascofg/react-admin-date-inputs](https://github.com/vascofg/react-admin-date-inputs): a collection of Date Inputs, based on [material-ui-pickers](https://material-ui-pickers.firebaseapp.com/)

## Translations

See the [translation](./Translation.md#available-locales) page.

## Data Providers

* **[Epilogue](https://github.com/dchester/epilogue)**: [dunghuynh/aor-epilogue-client](https://github.com/dunghuynh/aor-epilogue-client)
* **[Feathersjs](http://www.feathersjs.com/)**: [josx/aor-feathers-client](https://github.com/josx/aor-feathers-client)
* **[Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/)**: [sidferreira/aor-firebase-client](https://github.com/sidferreira/aor-firebase-client)
* **[GraphQL](http://graphql.org/)**: [marmelab/ra-data-graphql](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-data-graphql) (uses [Apollo](http://www.apollodata.com/))
* **[GraphCool](http://www.graph.cool/)**: [marmelab/ra-data-graphcool](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-data-graphql) (uses [Apollo](http://www.apollodata.com/))
* **[Hydra](http://www.hydra-cg.com/) / [JSON-LD](https://json-ld.org/)**: [api-platform/admin/hydra](https://github.com/api-platform/admin/blob/master/src/hydra/hydraClient.js)
* **[JSON API](http://jsonapi.org/)**: [moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client](https://github.com/moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client)
* **[JSON server](https://github.com/typicode/json-server)**: [marmelab/ra-data-json-server](https://github.com/marmelab/ra-data-json-server).
* Local JSON: [marmelab/ra-data-fakerest](https://github.com/marmelab/ra-data-fakerest)
* **[Loopback](http://loopback.io/)**: [kimkha/aor-loopback](https://github.com/kimkha/aor-loopback)
* **[Parse Server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server)**: [leperone/aor-parseserver-client](https://github.com/leperone/aor-parseserver-client)
* **[PostgREST](http://postgrest.com/en/v0.4/)**: [tomberek/aor-postgrest-client](https://github.com/tomberek/aor-postgrest-client)
* Simple REST: [marmelab/ra-data-simple-rest](https://github.com/marmelab/ra-data-simple-rest).

## Miscellaneous

- [api-platform/admin](https://api-platform.com/docs/admin): create a fully featured admin using React Admin for API supporting the [Hydra Core Vocabulary](http://www.hydra-cg.com/), including but not limited to APIs created using the [API Platform framework](https://api-platform.com)
- [marmelab/ra-realtime](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-realtime): enable realtime updates
- [zifnab87/ra-component-factory](https://github.com/zifnab87/ra-component-factory): centralized configuration of immutability/visibility of fields/menu-links/action buttons, easy re-ordering of fields/properties and tab reorganization based on permission roles

Commit message:

docs/ecosystem : add ra-customizable-datagrid

docs/Ecosystem.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Ecosystem"
---

# Ecosystem

- [Inputs and Fields](#inputs-and-fields)
- [Translations](#translations)
- [Data Providers](#data-providers)
- [Miscellaneous](#miscellaneous)

## Inputs and Fields

- [vascofg/react-admin-color-input](https://github.com/vascofg/react-admin-color-input): a color input using [React Color](http://casesandberg.github.io/react-color/), a collection of color pickers.
- [LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input](https://github.com/LoicMahieu/aor-tinymce-input): a TinyMCE component, useful for editing HTML
- [vascofg/react-admin-date-inputs](https://github.com/vascofg/react-admin-date-inputs): a collection of Date Inputs, based on [material-ui-pickers](https://material-ui-pickers.firebaseapp.com/)

## Translations

See the [translation](./Translation.md#available-locales) page.

## Data Providers

* **[Epilogue](https://github.com/dchester/epilogue)**: [dunghuynh/aor-epilogue-client](https://github.com/dunghuynh/aor-epilogue-client)
* **[Feathersjs](http://www.feathersjs.com/)**: [josx/aor-feathers-client](https://github.com/josx/aor-feathers-client)
* **[Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/)**: [sidferreira/aor-firebase-client](https://github.com/sidferreira/aor-firebase-client)
* **[GraphQL](http://graphql.org/)**: [marmelab/ra-data-graphql](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-data-graphql) (uses [Apollo](http://www.apollodata.com/))
* **[GraphCool](http://www.graph.cool/)**: [marmelab/ra-data-graphcool](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-data-graphql) (uses [Apollo](http://www.apollodata.com/))
* **[Hydra](http://www.hydra-cg.com/) / [JSON-LD](https://json-ld.org/)**: [api-platform/admin/hydra](https://github.com/api-platform/admin/blob/master/src/hydra/hydraClient.js)
* **[JSON API](http://jsonapi.org/)**: [moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client](https://github.com/moonlight-labs/aor-jsonapi-client)
* **[JSON server](https://github.com/typicode/json-server)**: [marmelab/ra-data-json-server](https://github.com/marmelab/ra-data-json-server).
* Local JSON: [marmelab/ra-data-fakerest](https://github.com/marmelab/ra-data-fakerest)
* **[Loopback](http://loopback.io/)**: [kimkha/aor-loopback](https://github.com/kimkha/aor-loopback)
* **[Parse Server](https://github.com/ParsePlatform/parse-server)**: [leperone/aor-parseserver-client](https://github.com/leperone/aor-parseserver-client)
* **[PostgREST](http://postgrest.com/en/v0.4/)**: [tomberek/aor-postgrest-client](https://github.com/tomberek/aor-postgrest-client)
* Simple REST: [marmelab/ra-data-simple-rest](https://github.com/marmelab/ra-data-simple-rest).

## Miscellaneous

- [ra-customizable-datagrid](https://github.com/fizix-io/ra-customizable-datagrid): plugin that allows to hide / show columns dynamically.
- [api-platform/admin](https://api-platform.com/docs/admin): create a fully featured admin using React Admin for API supporting the [Hydra Core Vocabulary](http://www.hydra-cg.com/), including but not limited to APIs created using the [API Platform framework](https://api-platform.com)
- [marmelab/ra-realtime](https://github.com/marmelab/react-admin/tree/master/packages/ra-realtime): enable realtime updates
- [zifnab87/ra-component-factory](https://github.com/zifnab87/ra-component-factory): centralized configuration of immutability/visibility of fields/menu-links/action buttons, easy re-ordering of fields/properties and tab reorganization based on permission roles
